# spotify-music-preferences

I've been an avid Spotify user since 2016 and what I always loved about Spotify was their song recommendation algorithms. Whether it be from the "radio" feature or the "discovery weekly" auto-generated playlist, Spotify always had a knack for finding the songs that best suit my music preferences. I knew that Spotify has collected tons of listening data so I wanted to see if I could use my data to explore my own preferences and maybe attempt to have a try at creating a model to predict songs myself.

After obtaining my data through a JSON drop I joined it with another dataset I found on Kaggle.com that contained all the numerical traits of over 200,000 songs on Spotify. I cleaned the data and performed exploratory analysis to better understand my listening history and determine what songs would be considered within my music taste. From this analysis, I decided that songs with over 4 plays would be considered a song that fit my music taste.

Before trying to create a prediction model I balanced the dataset using imblearn SMOTE oversampling. Then when the data is balanced I fitted linear regression, random forest, and XGBclassifier models and determined accuracy of predictions with F1 score. After training the model I then used it to predict a list of songs that could potentially fit my music taste based on the features.  

In the end after listening to the playlist of songs my model curated, there were songs that I greatly enjoyed that I have never discovered before but there were also songs that were not so plesant. However, this was a very interesting experience for me to explore how to create a song recommendation program. It allows me to appreciate the advanced models/algorithms companies such as Spotify use to create such good recommendation programs and motivates me to do further research and learn what goes into these programs.
